# Project Proposal Document

## Description:
AppArel is a mobile application designed for iOS devices that allows users to store and track their articles of clothing. The application acts as a virtual closet that can fit in the user’s pocket so that they can view their garments and create various combinations before they actually wear them. One of the central features of the application is the ability to “mix and match” various tops, bottoms, shoes, accessories, etc. using a sleek user interface design. Each item (i.e., an article of clothing) will be represented with images that match what they actually look like in the real world. The clothes can be categorized by kind/type so that users can either select from a card-view or from swiping left or right. Unlike similar applications, most of which possess one or two stars on the App Store, AppArel will allow users to share their clothing combinations to their friends to gauge the approval rating for that specific combination. This feature will be especially useful for asking a friend or group of friends for advice about what to wear for a group meet-up or similar events. 

## Justification:
This idea originated from my realization that people, including myself, are potentially wasting their time in the morning, or even for a special occasion, trying to find the perfect outfit. As of today, the common practice that people tend to do to decide between different clothes is to put them on individually. This approach normally results in taking clothes off of their hangers, and ending up putting them back if the clothes do not look right. Therefore, the solution I came up with is to let users plan the clothes they wish to wear without having to try them on physically. 

By the end of the spring semester, creating the final product would have incorporated all of the knowledge we have acquired from our previous classes at Loyola Marymount University. For example, the use of the Xcode IDE and Swift requires the skills from Programming Languages (CMSI 385). Planning the ideal data structures while still making sure that the user interactions are optimized would use what we were taught from the Data Structures and Algorithms classes (CMSI 281, and 282 respectively). Developing a seamless user interface design for the application would require the skills learned from the Interaction Design class (CMSI 370). Creating the database would use the skills learned from Database Systems (CMSI 486), which is a class that I audit for. Most importantly, software development models and methods we acquired in the Fall Software Engineering Lab (CMSI 401) can be applied to this project as well.
